Initial structure for documentation project (#1)
readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic: README.rst

Example: Basic Sphinx project for Read the Docs
===============================================

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. This page uses absolute links for most things so it renders properly on GitHub

```

As we discussed 👍

Author: Thanks! I already wrote almost the same while we were in the call but forgot to push -- merging with your sentence

This example shows the an integration of a basic Sphinx project with Read the Docs. You're encouraged to view it to get inspiration and copy & paste from the files in the source code. If you are using Read the Docs for the first time, have a look at the official `Read the Docs Tutorial <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/index.html>`_.

📚 `docs/ <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/>`_

>     A basic Sphinx project lives in ``docs/``, it was generated using Sphinx defaults

Reviewer: What are the sphinx defaults? `sphinx-quickstart`?

Author: Yes! Isn't that safe to call defaults?

Author: Marking as resolved for now - LMK if you would want a different phrasing @ericholscher

Reviewer: I think we need to be explicit. If a user doesn't know what sphinx defaults are, how do they learn?

Author: You mean to give people hints as to where to read about what a Sphinx configuration is and what values they can configure?

⚙️ `.readthedocs.yaml <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/.readthedocs.yaml>`_

>     Read the Docs Build configuration is stored in ``.readthedocs.yaml`` (configuration-as-code)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Read the Docs Build configuration is stored in ``.readthedocs.yaml``
```

Not sure what this content was doing, but it seems very out of context without explanation.

Author: Oh okay, I hear that buzzword all the time -- we store "configuration as code" because we don't want some snowflake stuff in a database somewhere :)

📍 `docs/requirements.txt <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/requirements.txt>`_ and `docs/requirements.in <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/requirements.in>`_
    Python dependencies are `pinned <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/reproducible-builds.html>`_ (uses `pip-tools <https://pip-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_)
💡 `docs/api.rst <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/api.rst>`_

>     By listing the Python module ``lumache`` in ``autosummary``, Sphinx will automatically scan this module and generate API docs.

Reviewer: Some of these list items end with a period, and some don't. We should standardize on one approach, probably ending w/ the period, because otherwise multiple sentences are weird.

Author: Yes, I think that ending with a period is nicest. Not having a full paragraph/sentence structure for each item requires some other kind of grammar hack... which usually turns out to be... hackish.

Like what if the following list items...

* ...started like this or...
* ...continued to mention alternatives without having full sentences
* ...were all this annoying to read!

Often I start a list like the above - during the writing process - and then end up turning it into full and proper sentences :)

Author: Cleaned up all the list items with a few minor tweaks..

💡 `docs/usage.rst <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/usage.rst>`_
   Sphinx can automatically extract API documentation directly from Python modules, using for instance ``autofunction``.
💡 `lumache.py <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/lumache.py>`_
    API docs are generated for this example Python module - they use *docstrings* directly in the documentation, notice how this shows up in the rendered documentation.
🔢 Git tags versioning
    A basic versioning mechanism with git tags.
📜 `README.rst <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/README.rst>`_
    Contents of this ``README.rst`` are visible on Github and included on `the documentation index page <https://example-sphinx-basic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ (Don't Repeat Yourself)
⁉️ Questions / comments
    If you have questions related to this example, feel free to can ask them as a Github issue `here <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/issues>`_.

> 

Reviewer: Love the above section 💯 -- just had some small nitpicks.

Author: Thanks! I'll try to reuse this structure across all example projects and transfer various improvements back and forth between the various projects here in the beginning.

Sphinx Example Project usage
----------------------------

> This project has a very normal Sphinx layout which is built by the Read the Docs platform almost the same way that you would build it locally (on your own laptop!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project has a standard Sphinx layout which is built by Read the Docs almost the same way that you would build it locally (on your own laptop!).
```

Author: Thanks, much more normal to write like that :smile:

> You can build and view this documentation project locally - you may want to activate `a local Python virtual environment firstly <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#creating-a-virtual-environment>`_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build and view this documentation project locally - we recommend that you activate `a local Python virtual environment first <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#creating-a-virtual-environment>`_:
```

.. code-block:: console

    # Install required Python dependencies (Sphinx etc.)
    pip install -r docs/requirements.txt

    # Enter the Sphinx project
    cd docs/
    
    # Run the raw sphinx-build command
    sphinx-build -M html . _build/

You can also build the documentation locally with ``make``:

.. code-block:: console

    # Enter the Sphinx project
    cd docs/
    
    # Build with make
    make html
    
    # Open with your preferred browser, pointing it to the documentation index page
    firefox _build/html/index.html

> Using the example in your own project

Reviewer: This is a great section! Really like that it was included.

Author: It's a hard balance between repeating instructions that can be found elsewhere vs. having something simple at-hand to the reader. I'm glad you liked it :)

-------------------------------------

If you are new to Read the Docs, you may want to refer to the `Read the Docs User documentation <https://docs.readthedocs.io/>`_.

If you are copying this code in order to get started with your documentation, you need to:

* Create a new repository on Github, GitLab, Bitbucket or another host supported by Read the Docs
* Customize all ``docs/*.rst`` files
* Add your own Python project, replacing the ``pyproject.toml`` configuration and ``lumache.py`` module.
* Rebuild the documenation locally to see that it works.
* Register your project on Read the Docs, see `Importing Your Documentation <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/intro/import-guide.html>`_.

Read the Docs tutorial
----------------------

> To get started with Read the Docs, you may also refer to the `Read the Docs tutorial <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with Read the Docs, you may also refer to the `Read the Docs tutorial <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/>`_.
It provides a full walk-through of building an example project similar to the one in this repository.
```
